_pages/about.md, before:

---

title: "About Me"

---
<!-- 
## Education

David prides himself on his diverse skill set. His most prominent fields of expertise are additive manufacturing (i.e., 3D printing) and biotechnology. 

* University of Virginia
  * BS Mathematics
  * BS Biomedical Engineering
* Vanderbilt University
  * PhD Biomedical Engineering

## Technical Skills

David can operate a number of different computer controlled (CNC) fabrication tools to turn 3D models into real-life parts. David has experience with the following additive manufacturing technologies:

* Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF)
* Stereolithography (SLA)
* Selective Laser Sintering (SLS)
* 3D Inkjet Printing
* Bioplotting

## Press 

The new Digital Fabrication Minor was covered in the [Vanderbilt Hustler](https://vanderbilthustler.com/2022/11/09/digital-fabrication-minor-introduced-for-2022-23-academic-year/).

<img src="/assets/img/David_Headshot_web2.jpg" alt="David Florian" style="width:200px;"/> -->

# About Me

My name is **Sidney Amsalem**, and I am currently pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science at Vanderbilt University, with a minor in Digital Fabrication. I am passionate about technology and business.

### My Business

I launched **Watch Cobblers LLC** in July 2023, a watch customization service where I've sold 365 hand-customized watches within just 9 months, generating $90,000 in revenue. My experience has been hands-on from the start—I designed a user-friendly e-commerce site, managed successful digital marketing campaigns, and produced all promotional content. Through this venture, I’ve honed my skills in business management, digital marketing, and product photography. Feel free to visit my website [watchcobblers.com](https://watchcobblers.com).

### Technical Projects

- **Autonomous Vehicle Speed Controller**: Developed a Python-based system for freeway driving that reduces traffic waves and enhances fuel efficiency. The model uses live data from LiDar sensors to calculate smooth and stable acceleration values. Open and closed-looped simulations in Simulink assessed controller behavior and showed effective responses to edge cases and lead distance and velocity variations. This was later validated through real-world freeway testing.
- **Advanced Calculator**: Engineered a C++ calculator application with various input/output formats and history tracking. Multiple design patterns, such as fractory, bridge, state, and visitor, were incorporated for modularity, scalability, and maintainability. Strict exception safety measures were implemented, with a strong exception guarantee across the entire codebase.
- **Sentence Reconstructor**: Created a C++ program that repairs sentences with all spaces removed, using a Trie data structure for efficient word search.

### Skills

- **Programming Languages**: C++, Python
- **Tools**: Fusion 360 CAD, Adobe Photoshop, Davinci Resolve
- **Specialties**: Product photography, digital marketing, business management

### Interests

When I’m not working or studying, you can find me tinkering with cars, playing fingerstyle guitar, or making an espresso. I’m also a casual marathon runner and enjoy experimenting with new recipes in the kitchen.

---

Feel free to [connect with me on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sidney-amsalem) or drop me an email at sidneyamsalem@gmail.com. I’m always open to discussing new opportunities, collaborations, or simply sharing my passion for watches and technology.

Commit message:

Changes to syringe pump page, homepage, and about page

_pages/about.md, after:

---

title: "About Me"

---
<!-- 
## Education

David prides himself on his diverse skill set. His most prominent fields of expertise are additive manufacturing (i.e., 3D printing) and biotechnology. 

* University of Virginia
  * BS Mathematics
  * BS Biomedical Engineering
* Vanderbilt University
  * PhD Biomedical Engineering

## Technical Skills

David can operate a number of different computer controlled (CNC) fabrication tools to turn 3D models into real-life parts. David has experience with the following additive manufacturing technologies:

* Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF)
* Stereolithography (SLA)
* Selective Laser Sintering (SLS)
* 3D Inkjet Printing
* Bioplotting

## Press 

The new Digital Fabrication Minor was covered in the [Vanderbilt Hustler](https://vanderbilthustler.com/2022/11/09/digital-fabrication-minor-introduced-for-2022-23-academic-year/).

<img src="/assets/img/David_Headshot_web2.jpg" alt="David Florian" style="width:200px;"/> -->

My name is **Sidney Amsalem**, and I am currently pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science at Vanderbilt University, with a minor in Digital Fabrication. I am seeking a job that involves combining technology and business principles.

## Education

* Bergen County Technical High School
  * Major in Automotive Engineering
* Vanderbilt University (August 2021 - Expected May 2025)
  * BS in Computer Science
  * Minor in Digital Fabrication

### My Business

I launched **Watch Cobblers LLC** in July 2023, a watch customization service where I've sold 365 hand-customized watches within just 9 months, generating $90,000 in revenue. My experience has been hands-on from the start—I designed a user-friendly e-commerce site, managed successful digital marketing campaigns, and produced all promotional content. Through this venture, I’ve learned skills in business management, digital marketing, and product photography. Feel free to visit my website [watchcobblers.com](https://watchcobblers.com).

### Technical Projects

- **Autonomous Vehicle Speed Controller**: Developed a Python-based system for freeway driving that reduces traffic waves and enhances fuel efficiency. The model uses live data from LiDar sensors to calculate smooth and stable acceleration values. Open and closed-looped simulations in Simulink assessed controller behavior and showed effective responses to edge cases and lead distance and velocity variations. This was later validated through real-world freeway testing.
- **Advanced Calculator**: Engineered a C++ calculator application with various input/output formats and history tracking. Multiple design patterns, such as fractory, bridge, state, and visitor, were incorporated for modularity, scalability, and maintainability. Strict exception safety measures were implemented, with a strong exception guarantee across the entire codebase.
- **Sentence Reconstructor**: Created a C++ program that repairs sentences with all spaces removed, using a Trie data structure for efficient word search.

### Skills

- **Programming Languages**: C++, Python
- **Tools**: Adobe Photoshop, Davinci Resolve
- **Digital Fabrication Tools**: Fusion 360 CAD
- **Misc**: Product photography, digital marketing, business management

### Interests

When I’m not working or studying, you can find me tinkering with cars, playing fingerstyle guitar, or making an espresso. I’m also a casual marathon runner and enjoy experimenting with new recipes in the kitchen.

---

Feel free to [connect with me on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sidney-amsalem) or drop me an email at sidneyamsalem@gmail.com. I’m always open to discussing new opportunities, collaborations, or simply sharing my passion for watches and technology.
